Okay, let's review. There are seven steps
to the perfect gather. First,
take the pipe and rotate it against the
wall. And while you're doing this, get
that hand back. Second, look for
the reflection of the pipe against the
surface of the glass. Third,
touch the reflection to the pipe and hold
those hands still. Fourth,
make two complete rotations. Now, you can
make more than two, but you've got to
make at least two. The first rotation
gets the glass on the pipe. The second
rotation evens it out, so make two full
rotations. I've probably made about seven
there. Step
five, lift the pipe up past level,
break that strand off. Step
six, come on out.
Now, technically, you've made a gather,
but you're not done yet, because step
seven is very important. The glass is
going to want to flow back onto the pipe,
but you can't do anything with glass
that's on the pipe, so you need to adjust
the glass. And usually this means holding
the glass forward a little bit, letting
the angle of the pipe let gravity pull
that glass off. Now, obviously, you've
got to be careful because you've got
screaming hot glass. You don't want to
just hold it like this, it'll run onto
your shoes. But just a little bit of
downward angle will let that glass
flow to the end and make your life a lot
easier when you've got to start shaping
it. Okay, let's do this with a real
furnace.
Okay, so we're ready to make our first
gather. Now, I'm going to do this on a
blowpipe. You're probably going to make
your first gather with a punty, but it's
the same principle. Here we go. Jennifer
opens the door. I set the pipe on the
sill and roll it up against the side of
the tank. Now I look in for the
reflection on the surface. There's the
reflection. I touch the reflection to the
end of the blowpipe, make two full
rotations, come up
past level to break the strand, slide my
left hand forward, come out, and now
I hold the glass down and adjust it,
get that glass to flow off the end. That
looks pretty good. And there's a perfect
first gather.
Let's take another look at a first gather
from the perspective of the person
blowing the glass. So you open the door,
set the pipe on the sill, and start
rotating against that right wall. Now
we're looking for the reflection of the
pipe on the surface of the glass. There's
the reflection. Touch the reflection to
the pipe and turn twice. Once you've
got the glass on the end, bring it up
past level, break the strand off, and
come out.
And that's what a good first gather
should look like.